# Insurance Cross-Sell: Ranking Clients for Cross-Sell

# 1. Business Problem.

Insurance All is an Insurance company which is trying to sell **vehicle insurance** for **health insurance** clients.

# 2. Business Assumptions.

A few points were not clear from the data itself during the development of this project so that we needed to make assumptions to cover it. In a real situation, more clarification on the business model would be needed.

1. It is not clear what is classified as response in the data, i.e., does it mean that the client has already accepted the cross sell or that they answered to a survey that they would? I assumed that they already acquired the new insurance.

2. Annual Premium refers to the amount paid for the health insurance or the price that would be paid for the acquisition of vehicle insurance? It was assumed that it was the price for the vehicle insurance so that ROI (Return Over Investment) curves could be calculated.

# 3. Solution Strategy

### Part 1: Understanding the Data.

<b>Step 1:</b> Describe the data in size, columns, etc. Use basic concepts of descriptive statistics, identify basic behavior of values and outliars, etc. <br>
<b>Step 2:</b> Construct a set of hypothesis of features that should affect client interest.<br>
<b>Step 3:</b> Make a Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) in order to validate the hypothesis constructed in <b>Step 2</b> to gain understanding about the business.

### Part 2: Treat the data.

<b>Step 1:</b> Rescale, normalization, transformation and encoding of the data to increase the models capability of learning from our dataset.<br>
<b>Step 2:</b> Feature selection using an algorithm (Extra Trees) and knowledge obtained from EDA.


### Part 3: Create and evaluate a Machine Learning Model.

<b>Step 1:</b> Select multiple ML algorithms to evaluate the performance.<br>
<b>Step 2:</b> Choose and validate the model that will be used based on characteristics like cross validation performance (recall@k, precision@k), deploy cost, value added to business, etc.<br>
<b>Step 3:</b> Perform a Fine Tuning search for model hyperparameters.<br>
<b>Step 4:</b> Evaluate the model's performance in terms of business metrics (Return over investment) and how it affects business decisions.

# 4. Machine Learning Model Applied

Among the multiple models tested for this application, AdaBoost model showed the best performance with a recall@50% of 82.4% and precision@50% 25.2%. 

# 5. Machine Learning Model Performance

| Model Name    | recall@50%         | precision@50%
|:--------------|:-------------------|:--------------
| AdaBoost      | (82.44 +/- 0.73)% | (25.21 +/- 0.02)% 

# 6. Business Results

The ROI curve was obtained to evaluate the impact of the constructed model on the business. The maximum profit for the test basis was obtained for 49% of the basis contacted with a net profit of $259,612,358.00. Which is around two times better than using random sorting of clients.

# 7. Conclusions

A machine learning model was developed in order to predict the most likely client to acquire a Vehicle Insurance cross sell from health insurance. With the use of AdaBoost model it was possible rank the clients with a recall@50% of 82%.

# 8. Lessons Learned

In this project, I learned 

1. How to use probabilities generated by classification algorithms to rank a database
2. The main metrics for Learning to Rank problems, like precision and recall at k, lift curve and cumulative gain.
